This DHS report is for Sierra Leone 2016 - Sierra Leone Malaria Indicator Survey
- Data collection took place from 29 June 2016 to 4 August 2016
- The primary objective of the survey was to provide up-to-date estimates of basic demographic and health indicators related to malaria
- Two stage sample design
- Data was disaggregated by district because the health system is managed by district. 
- First stage sampling involved selecting sample points from the sampling frame. Enumeration areas (EAs) delineated by Statistics Sierra Leone for the 2015 Sierra Leone Population and Housing Census (SLPHC) were used as the sampling frame (SSL 2016). A total of 336 clusters were selected with probability proportional to size from the 12,856 EAs covered in the 2015 SLPHC. Of these clusters, 99 were in urban areas and 237 in rural areas. Urban areas were oversampled within regions in order to produce robust estimates for that domain.
- The second stage of sampling involved systematic selection of households. A household listing operation was undertaken in all of the selected EAs in May 2016, and households to be included in the survey were randomly selected from these lists. Twenty households were selected from each EA, for a total sample size of 6,720 households. Because of the approximately equal sample sizes in each district, the sample is not self-weighting at the national level. Results shown in this report have been weighted to account for the complex sample design
- All women ages 15-49 and their young children under age 5 in the selected households were eligible for the interview. All women ages 15-49 who were either permanent residents of the selected households or visitors who stayed in the household the night before the survey were eligible to be interviewed. With the parent’s or guardian’s consent, children age 6-59 months were tested for anaemia and for malaria infection
- The total expected number of interviewed women in the 2016 SLMIS was 7,500, with 2,618 women residing in urban areas and 4,882 in rural areas
- Questionnaires - Household (list all the usual members of and visitors to selected households. Basic information was collected on the characteristics of each person listed in the household, including his or her age, sex, and relationship to the head of the household. The data on the age and sex of household members, obtained from the Household Questionnaire, were used to identify women eligible for an individual interview and children age 6-59 months eligible for anaemia and malaria testing. Additionally, the Household Questionnaire captured information on characteristics of the household’s dwelling unit, such as the source of water, type of toilet facilities, materials used for the floor, ownership of various durable goods, and ownership and use of mosquito nets), Biomarker (record the results of the anaemia and malaria testing of children 6-59 months, as well as the signatures of the fieldworker and the parent or guardian who gave consent), and Women’s Questionnaires (background characteristics, reproductive history, knowledge about malaria, Prenatal care and preventive malaria treatment for the most recent birth etc.); Questionnaires were in English
- People’s consent was asked before survey was given
- Household weight - 617811
- Women’s Individual weight - 605768
